TECHNOLOGIES:
  Front-end
    I really enjoy front-end development. To me, it really brings an idea or product together, and shares the vision of the product to the users. Want a super-sleek site to exemplify your new super-sleek disruptive technology? Do you want an intuitive user experience where the user "just knows where to go?" The front-end development process does just that, and the end design glues all of the modules of the application together into a **<i>hopefully</i>** pleasing experience for the end-users.

    HTML, CSS, javascript/jQuery, CSS Preprocessors such as SASS, HTML Preprocessors such as HAML, Frameworks such as Bootstrap, Modernizr, Photoshop, Illustrator


  Back-end
    For almost all of my open source projects, I have developed the back-end system for data and application management. I have recently preferred Ruby on Rails to construct the backbone of the application because it allows the application to get off the ground quickly. The following Rails has generated is also helpful when troubleshooting as there is a wealth of information available.

    In addition to the application framework and language itself, I am also familiar with database and server administration. I am able to set up and use Apache or Nginx and am familiar with MySQL and relational database systems.

    Ruby on Rails 3.x and 4, MySQL, Apache, Nginx, Ubuntu/Linux distros, Passenger, amiliarity with PHP and MVC PHP frameworks such as Symfony2


  Project Management tools
    Pivotal Tracker , Asana, git, github, Vagrant, Web app analytics using Google Analytics


TEAM-BASED SKILLS: 
Familiarity with agile development and scrum software development, Completing projects with hard deadlines, Hardware troubleshooting, Software troubleshooting, End-user and internal technical support, Proficiency in learning new software quickly, Oral Communication skills, Written Communication skills, Ability to relay concepts into layman's terms


EXPERIENCE:
  Themis Bar Review - March 2012 - Current
  ----------------------------------------
  Themis Bar Review is a post-market startup specializing in online bar review for recent law school grads. 

  Responsibilities include creating and updating functionality in a web-based application using Ruby on Rails 3.1, PHP, HTML, CSS, SCSS, and jQuery. This is a unique implementation of server-side backend technologies because the site is a PHP/RoR hybrid. The Rails side must communicate the authentication to the PHP side, and vice versa. I created front-end functionality, as well as back end functionality including authentication logic, recording data and user input to a MySQL database, front-end templating, and Rails logic to create dynamic pages.
  Other responsibilities at Themis included both internal and customer tech support, ordering new equipment, hiring, SQL query generation for executive reports, and SEO optimization.


  Acapella Media LLC/Discount Now LLC Front End Engineer and Rails Developer - July 2014 - September 2014
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  I was the US liaison between the India team and management located in the US. Responsibilities included creating features on a limited deadline, refactoring subpar code in Ruby and Javascript, creating new functionality based on the business needs of DiscountNow. Additionally, I worked with the team and management to discuss best practices for UX and user-engagement on the site. 


  Capstone game design project - School year 2010 - 2011
  ------------------------------------------------------
  The senior capstone project was "Warden of Raal," a puzzle game where the player had to strategically place traps to thwart intruders entering his domain. Technologies used included Unity framework, javascript/C# (Unity allows either), Maya, Photoshop, Illustrator

  25 person team-based project in which the task was to complete a game in two semesters. Skills demonstrated included creating functionality in extensible modules, project management, time management, maintaining clarity in design documents as well as documenting actions taken during the project, using SVN as version control, creating a reasonable pipeline to submit and push code,  managing the different divisions of the project (art, design, programming, etc.) to come together in a cohesive way, asset creation, debugging code as necessary.

EDUCATION:
  B.A. Game Design,
  Columbia College Chicago 2011
